weeks/09_multi.md, before:

# Week 09 Multi User Experience 1

## [[Previous](./08_video.md)] [[Next](./10_multi.md)]

## Plan

- review homework

- questions

- summarize your challenges (and progress) on your wiki page

- saving data local on the device and remotely in the cloud

- Testflight update of MoGallery confirm - post an image

## Guest developer

- Adam Jonah

  - demoproject

    - [cleanandchecked2 app](https://github.com/supertutorai/demoproject)

  - https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tutto-get-flirty/id6471154924

    - tuttO - get flirty!

  - https://apps.apple.com/us/app/big-signal-summon-help-1click/id6472224823
    - BIG SIGNAL: SUMMON HELP 1CLICK

## Review - tracking time

- [Slide Show Delay](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-SlideShowDelay)

  - slide show with slider for delay

<!-- - [CaptureRecorder](https://github.com/jht9629-nyu/CaptureRecorder.git)
  - apply core image filters to live video stream from camera
  - record button to save video to Photo library
  - minminal ObservableObject Model
  - no need for Combine! -->

## Map Demo Apps

- [09-Location](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-Location)

  - in Simulator > Location > Features > Custom Location

- [09-Bucketlist](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-Bucketlist)

  - Saves data to local Documents folder as SavedPlaces JSON file

## Saving Data - Local

- [05-ImageEditDemo](https://github.com/molab-itp/05-ImageEditDemo)

- [06-ChipsSaveJSON](https://github.com/molab-itp/06-ChipsSaveJSON)

- [07-ImageEditDemoJSON](https://github.com/molab-itp/07-ImageEditDemoJSON)

## Saving Data - Cloud

- [09-ChipsSaveCloud](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-ChipsSaveCloud)
  - in private class repo

## The big picture

- [Firebase Fundamentals video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9pgI3Mg-So&list=PLl-K7zZEsYLnfwBe4WgEw9ao0J0N1LYDR&index=7) ~40 minutes

- [Getting started with the Firebase Realtime Database on the web](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pP7quzFmWBY) ~11 minutes

## MoGallery App

- [98-MoGallery-Private](https://github.com/molab-itp/98-MoGallery-Private)

  - private repo with MoGallery/MoGallery/GoogleService-Info.plist
  - run on the your iOS device to access firebase project configured for this class
  - Use MoLobby project for Lobby only functions

- [98-MoGallery](https://github.com/molab-itp/98-MoGallery)
  - public repo, no GoogleService-Info.plist
  - must create your own [firebase project - a container for you app](https://firebase.google.com/)

## MoGallery cloud data

- [firebase realtime database](https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/molab-485f5/database/molab-485f5-default-rtdb/data/~2Fmo-1)
- [firebase storage](https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/molab-485f5/storage/molab-485f5.appspot.com/files/~2F-mo~2Fmo-1)

## Re-using Example Code

- in class exercises
- removed unused code
- renaming project

## Firebase Resources

### Firebase Offical Docs

- https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth
- https://firebase.google.com/docs/database
- https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore
- https://firebase.google.com/docs/storage

### Firebase Tutorial - FireCards

- https://www.kodeco.com/11609977-getting-started-with-cloud-firestore-and-swiftui

  - FireCards Firebase Console
    - https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/firecards-77c11/firestore

- FireCards project updated for current SDK in class private repo
  - https://github.com/molab-itp/09-FireCards

### Firebase Tutorial - MakeItSo

- https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/

  - Chapter 1 to chapter 4
    - https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/#building-a-simple-ui
    - https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/#storing-data-in-the-cloud
  - Skip
    - https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/02-developing-locally-with-the-emulator-suite
  - MakeItSo Firebase Console
    - https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/makeitso-faa35/firestore

- MakeItSo project updated for current SDK in class private repo
  - https://github.com/molab-itp/09-MakeItSo

## combine-vs-async docs

- https://peterfriese.dev/blog/2022/combine-vs-async/
  - https://github.com/peterfriese/SwiftUI-Concurrency-Essentials
- https://peterfriese.dev/blog/2022/firebase-async-calls-swift/

## Homework Week09

- Part 1:

  - Prepare first draft of your final project proposal. Ok to entertain more than one initial concept.

- Part 2:

  - Option 1:

    - setup a firebase project and build one of the firebase tutorial apps
      - FireCards
      - MakeItSo

  - Option 2:

    - customize the **MoLobby** app in
      - [98-MoGallery-Private](https://github.com/molab-itp/98-MoGallery-Private)
      - with your own multi-user experience twist
      - fork the repo and create a branch labeled with your name

- create a Week09 folder for your project and add link to it here:

- [wiki home page week09](https://github.com/molab-itp/content-2025-09/wiki#week-09-homework)

  - update your wiki page with your
    - progress | problems | plans | questions
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -

Commit message:

preparing for open source collaboration

weeks/09_multi.md, after:

# Week 09 Multi User Experience 1

## [[Previous](./08_video.md)] [[Next](./10_multi.md)]

## Plan

- review homework

- questions

- summarize your challenges (and progress) on your wiki page

- saving data local on the device and remotely in the cloud

- Testflight update of MoGallery confirm - post an image

## Guest developer

- Adam Jonah

  - [cleanandchecked2 app](https://github.com/supertutorai/demoproject)

    - scan bar code of product to get nut

  - https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tutto-get-flirty/id6471154924

    - tuttO - get flirty!

  - https://apps.apple.com/us/app/big-signal-summon-help-1click/id6472224823
    - BIG SIGNAL: SUMMON HELP 1CLICK
    - [source adamjonah](https://github.com/adamjonah/bigsignalapps)
    - [source molab-itp](https://github.com/molab-itp/bigsignalapps)
      - preparing for open source collaboration

## Review - tracking time

- [Slide Show Delay](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-SlideShowDelay)

  - slide show with slider for delay

<!-- - [CaptureRecorder](https://github.com/jht9629-nyu/CaptureRecorder.git)
  - apply core image filters to live video stream from camera
  - record button to save video to Photo library
  - minminal ObservableObject Model
  - no need for Combine! -->

## Map Demo Apps

- [09-Location](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-Location)

  - in Simulator > Location > Features > Custom Location

- [09-Bucketlist](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-Bucketlist)

  - Saves data to local Documents folder as SavedPlaces JSON file

## Saving Data - Local

- [05-ImageEditDemo](https://github.com/molab-itp/05-ImageEditDemo)

- [06-ChipsSaveJSON](https://github.com/molab-itp/06-ChipsSaveJSON)

- [07-ImageEditDemoJSON](https://github.com/molab-itp/07-ImageEditDemoJSON)

## Saving Data - Cloud

- [09-ChipsSaveCloud](https://github.com/molab-itp/09-ChipsSaveCloud)
  - in private class repo

## The big picture

- [Firebase Fundamentals video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9pgI3Mg-So&list=PLl-K7zZEsYLnfwBe4WgEw9ao0J0N1LYDR&index=7) ~40 minutes

- [Getting started with the Firebase Realtime Database on the web](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pP7quzFmWBY) ~11 minutes

## MoGallery App

- [98-MoGallery-Private](https://github.com/molab-itp/98-MoGallery-Private)

  - private repo with MoGallery/MoGallery/GoogleService-Info.plist
  - run on the your iOS device to access firebase project configured for this class
  - Use MoLobby project for Lobby only functions

- [98-MoGallery](https://github.com/molab-itp/98-MoGallery)
  - public repo, no GoogleService-Info.plist
  - must create your own [firebase project - a container for you app](https://firebase.google.com/)

## MoGallery cloud data

- [firebase realtime database](https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/molab-485f5/database/molab-485f5-default-rtdb/data/~2Fmo-1)
- [firebase storage](https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/molab-485f5/storage/molab-485f5.appspot.com/files/~2F-mo~2Fmo-1)

## Re-using Example Code

- in class exercises
- removed unused code
- renaming project

## Firebase Resources

### Firebase Offical Docs

- https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth
- https://firebase.google.com/docs/database
- https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore
- https://firebase.google.com/docs/storage

### Firebase Tutorial - FireCards

- https://www.kodeco.com/11609977-getting-started-with-cloud-firestore-and-swiftui

  - FireCards Firebase Console
    - https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/firecards-77c11/firestore

- FireCards project updated for current SDK in class private repo
  - https://github.com/molab-itp/09-FireCards

### Firebase Tutorial - MakeItSo

- https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/

  - Chapter 1 to chapter 4
    - https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/#building-a-simple-ui
    - https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/#storing-data-in-the-cloud
  - Skip
    - https://peterfriese.github.io/MakeItSo/tutorials/makeitso/02-developing-locally-with-the-emulator-suite
  - MakeItSo Firebase Console
    - https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/project/makeitso-faa35/firestore

- MakeItSo project updated for current SDK in class private repo
  - https://github.com/molab-itp/09-MakeItSo

## combine-vs-async docs

- https://peterfriese.dev/blog/2022/combine-vs-async/
  - https://github.com/peterfriese/SwiftUI-Concurrency-Essentials
- https://peterfriese.dev/blog/2022/firebase-async-calls-swift/

## Homework Week09

- Part 1:

  - Prepare first draft of your final project proposal. Ok to entertain more than one initial concept.

- Part 2:

  - Option 1:

    - setup a firebase project and build one of the firebase tutorial apps
      - FireCards
      - MakeItSo

  - Option 2:

    - customize the **MoLobby** app in
      - [98-MoGallery-Private](https://github.com/molab-itp/98-MoGallery-Private)
      - with your own multi-user experience twist
      - fork the repo and create a branch labeled with your name

- create a Week09 folder for your project and add link to it here:

- [wiki home page week09](https://github.com/molab-itp/content-2025-09/wiki#week-09-homework)

  - update your wiki page with your
    - progress | problems | plans | questions
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
    -
